# Diagnostic Log Viewer

The Diagnostic Log Viewer is a tool which can be used to view and interact with Compressed Diagnostic Log (CDL) files. See background for more information on [CDL files](# Background). The viewer can be used to step through the execution sequence of a program while investigating the call stack, variables and exceptions for each position in the program.

# Demo 

A demo of the viewer is available here.
* The demo loads a CDL file generated by running compress.py in the yscope-previews/clp-s-s3 repo.
* The compress.py program was injected with diagnostic logs using the Automated Diagnostic Log Injector (ADLI) tool and run to generate this CDL file. The ADLI tool will be released shortly.

# Background

> [!NOTE]  
> A more detailed introduction to diagnostic logging and the diagnostic tools it enables is in development.

CDL files are generated through a process called Diagnostic Logging (DL) in which the logtype, variable values and exceptions for each instruction are logged.Diagnostic logging is practically enabled by Automated Diagnostic Log Injector(ADLI) tool which automatically insert the necessary log statements to extract the diagnostic information. 

The ADLI tool uses Abstract Syntax Trees (AST's) to traverse through the structure of the program to insert the necessary log statements. The ADLI tool appends a Simplified Syntax Tree (SST) of the program in the header of the CDL file and provides a logtype ID map which can be used when inserting the necessary log statements. This effectively compressing the logtypes at the source while logging. When diagnostic logs are ingested by CLP, the performance will be much better compared to unstructured/JSON logs and the implementation will be simpler. It will be possible to further compress the logs by grouping variable values since a map of all variables are provided in the SST.

Using Diagnostic Logging, it will be possible to build a fully automated log based diagnostic solution that can perform automated root cause analysis.

# Providing feedback

You can use GitHub issues to [report a bug][bug-report] or [request a feature][feature-req].

# Docs

In development.

# Contributing

In development.


[bug-report]: https://github.com/vishalpalaniappan/diagnostic-log-viewer/issues
[feature-req]: https://github.com/vishalpalaniappan/diagnostic-log-viewer/issues
